#WIP 

# Description

Technobabble is an umbrella term for any word, solution, problem, or description which relies on futuristic gibberish. It is a key part of the [[Core Tenets|Core Tenet]] of [[Core Tenets#1. Camp|Camp]], which encourages Dawsoneers not to take the game too seriously. However, it is important to remember that Technobabble's only master is the story. GMs and Dawsoneers can expect Technobabble to show up when a new plot thread is being introduced, the [[Core Tenets#2. Raising the Stakes|Stakes need to be Raised]], or a dramatic ending is required. 

For example, imagine a ship were investigating the stellar remnant of a recent supernova. When they scan it with their [[Gravimetric Sensor]], they discover a non-Newtonian gravimetric field anomaly which seems to be increasing the effect of gravity nearby. Of course, these aren't even real words, nor does they even make sense considering what one might expect to happen after a supernova, but it allows for wacky, campy situations like increased gravity on a starship bridge.

In this sense, Technobabble is a mostly harmless tool for GMs to use to create interesting problems for Dawsoneers. However, there is another way Technobabble can be used which has a much more profound impact on the game: [[#Invoking Technobabble]].

# Invoking Technobabble

Dawsoneers can, if and when they see fit, Invoke Technobabble. In order to do this, they must say a long string of scientific-sounding gibberish (in character!), usually summing it up with a clean metaphor or simple explanation. This can be whatever you want, and others are encouraged to keep quiet while it is being explained and not suggest their own Technobabble. Have fun!

When one Invokes Technobabble (and finishes explaining themselves), they can reap the rewards. Sometimes, the Invocation just works. Other times, the GM might decide that it requires more creative and suspenseful Technobabble. Extremely consequential effects, like disabling an enemy Spacecraft or avoiding certain death, usually require some [[Core Tenets#3. Give and Take|Give and Take]] on the part of the Dawsoneers to keep the game balanced and fun whether or not they make perfect sense.

Once the specifics have been worked out and the effect activates, the GM describes what happens in the game world. Maybe the fermion pulse disables the communications tower, the ship escapes the black hole's pull by detonating an implosion torpedo just inside its event horizon (just like plugging a hole in a tire!), or the ship hides inside the ionic gas cloud to confuse the sensors of a distant probe. 

Whatever the case, it's not quite over yet. When Technobabble is Invoked, the GM almost always [[Core Tenets#2. Raising the Stakes|Raises the Stakes]]. Remember: Technobabble serves the story before anyone else, so any Invocation of Technobabble should have effects that make the story more interesting. For example, a fermion pulse might successfully disable a communications tower, but at the same time it renders ion-based engines (the kind the crew happens to be using) completely ineffective! However, GMs should be careful not to punish Dawsoneers too much - Invoking Technobabble should be fun, and its consequences should provide interesting dilemmas and dramatic sequences for Dawsoneers. If the engines are shut down by the fermion pulse, players should always have some daring way of restarting them just before plummeting into the planet's gravity well! 

One notable exception is when Technobabble is done to resolve a problem. This should never be too easy - GMs should make sure the [[Core Tenets#3. Give and Take|Give and Take]] is balanced - but eventually, the stakes do have to be lowered and Technobabble can be Invoked to wrap up a story. By rushing down to the engine room and manually repolarising the engines, they might sputter back to life and save the ship from certain doom. 

# Technobabble Examples

A Gunner, who let's call Oxel, knows that one wall in this cave is actually a holographic doorway. He Invokes Technobabble, suggesting that he could reconfigure his plasma pistol to emit an x-ray pulse which might disrupt the holographic matrix of the doorway. The GM allows this, but requires some [[Core Tenets#3. Give and Take|Give and Take]]: it will require 10 minutes of reconfiguring, and it will destroy his laser pistol. Oxel accepts these consequences and detonates his pistol, revealing the holographic doorway across the room. However, the GM [[Core Tenets#2. Raising the Stakes|Raises the Stakes]]: it also reveals a holographic window behind which an unidentified creature has been watching them! This keeps the story interesting and makes the Dawsoneers feel good for thinking of a creative resolution for the problem.

In another case, imagine the Characters are on the bridge of their cloaked Spacecraft, watching a space battle between two warring nations. They want to assist one side of the battle without revealing their presence to the other side, putting themselves in danger. A Scientist, who let's call Freya, wants to transmit enemy movements to give them a tactical advantage. They walk to the Communications Workstation, suggesting that they could mask their hailing frequency by overlapping their transmission with the FTL signatures of the ally fleet. The GM suggests that this would work, but the Spacecraft would need to fly directly behind the ally fleet to enter their FTL trail. The Pilot flies the ship into position and Freya sends the communication, granting the ally fleet a quick victory. However, the [[Core Tenets#2. Raising the Stakes|Stakes are Raised]] when a fighter wing breaks off from the enemy fleet and try to flank the allies, putting Freya's Spacecraft in danger and causing the crew to have to decloak and fight or attempt to dodge the incoming fire. Their Technobabble worked, but it required putting the crew in harm's way and led to an interesting conflict.

# A Note on Technobabble (In)Consistency

There is one rule for Technobabble: by its very nature, it *cannot* make sense. If players attempt to use deductive reasoning, common sense, or worst of all *logic*, Technobabble quickly falls apart. GMs and Dawsoneers are strongly encouraged not to write themselves into a corner with Technobabble, ensuring that it is only used to push the story in interesting directions and keep the game fun without introducing too many plot holes or inconsistencies.

Importantly, **Technobabble changes the story, not the rules**. If Technobabble was Invoked to supercharge a sensor using tachyon particles, that doesn't mean that a constant source of tachyons will allow sensors to always be supercharged. Technobabble is temporary, unpredictable, dangerous, and probably voids the warranty on your starship - if you start thinking "but it worked last time!" you'll end up with a headache.

# A Note on Main Character Syndrome

Main Character Syndrome (MCS) is a serious and widespread condition that affects 1 in 5 humans galaxy-wide. If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with MCS and have abused Technobabble at your table, don't worry - plenty of Main Characters have long and happy Dawson careers by following this one simple trick.

If a Dawsoneer wants to solve every problem by Invoking Technobabble, this is a perfect time to suggest they introduce other Dawsoneers into their plan. Maybe an Engineer is required to reconfigure a fermion emitter, a Pilot needs to park the ship in *just the right place* to avoid the quantum ripples, or a Scientist could go on a shuttle to get a closer look at the communications tower to time the pulse just right. Whether or not it all makes perfect sense, the Dawsoneers at your table will have a lot more fun if they're all included in the hijinks.